docs(blog): introducing react-view (#2394)
uber/baseweb: documentation-site/pages/blog/introducing-react-view/index.mdx

- Some additional actions. For example, you can **format the code with Prettier** or reset the playground state.

<Yard
  componentName="Button"
  theme={[]}
  props={{
    children: {
      value: 'Hello',
      type: PropTypes.ReactNode,
      description: 'Visible label.',
    },
    size: {
      value: 'SIZE.default',
      defaultValue: 'SIZE.default',
      options: SIZE,
      type: PropTypes.Enum,
      description: 'Defines the size of the button.',
      imports: {
        'baseui/button': {
          named: ['SIZE'],
        },
      },
    },
    onClick: {
      value: '() => alert("click")',
      type: PropTypes.Function,
      description: 'Function called when button is clicked.',
    },
    disabled: {
      value: false,
      type: PropTypes.Boolean,
      description: 'Indicates that the button is disabled',
    },
    overrides: {
      value: undefined,
      type: PropTypes.Custom,
      description: 'Lets you customize all aspects of the component.',
      custom: {
        names: [],
        sharedProps: {},
      },
    },
  }}
  scope={{
    Button,
    SIZE,
  }}
  imports={{
    'baseui/button': {
      named: ['Button'],
    },
  }}
/>

> All these parts work in harmony. An update one of them synchronizes the state across all of them. So you can change the knob to update the source code or edit the source code to updat knobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All these parts work in harmony. An update to one of them synchronizes the state across all of them. So you can change the knob to update the source code or edit the source code to update knobs.
```

> **React View is open sourced as [uber/react-view](https://github.com/uber/react-view)** and you can install with npm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**React View is open sourced as [uber/react-view](https://github.com/uber/react-view)** and you can install from npm:
```

```
yarn add react-view
```

## Wait But Why?

> Our team is responsible for this website and the entire Base Web component library. Naturally, you might assume that most of our jobs consists of building React components. However, as the number of Base Web users grows, the reality is slightly different:

Reviewer: Should we phrase this half-jokingly? I am a bit worried, that folks will take it too seriously

Author: Yea, this should be a joke. What would make it more obvious (without just completely giving it up by appending “j/k”)? :)

<BlogImage
  src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1387913/69685208-785d8d80-1070-11ea-82bf-81bd6b7f28ee.png"
  alt="UI Platform team's workload"
  caption="UI Platform team's workload"
/>

> **And that's a good thing**. If you don’t spend a lot of time helping other developers, it probably means that nobody uses your stuff. In a single year, we went from 0 to almost 500 applications! That translates into 1000 users. There are 50 components, hundreds props and endless possibilities. It is not suprising we have to spend a lot of time with support. Is there a way to get some of that time back?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**And that's a good thing**. If you don’t spend a lot of time helping other developers, it probably means that nobody uses your stuff. In a single year, we went from 0 to almost 500 applications! That translates into 1000s of users. There are 50 components, hundreds of props and endless possibilities. It is not surprising we have to spend a lot of time with support. Is there a way to get some of that time back?
```

> We believe that if we build an amazing documentation, we can significantly reduce the number of questions in our chats and makes developers happier. We have invested a significant time to experiment with different kinds of documentation and React View is our latest iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We believe that if we build amazing documentation, we can significantly reduce the number of questions in our chats and makes developers happier. We have invested a significant amount of time to experiment with different kinds of documentation and React View is our latest iteration.
```

> Build documentation so good they can’t ignore it.

> Does it work? Check for yourself! You can browse through our components on the right side and explore various features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Does it work? Check for yourself! You can browse through our components on the left-hand side and explore various features.
```

export default () => {
  const params = useView({
    initialCode: `() => {
      const text: string = "Hey";
      return <h3>{text}</h3>;
    }`,
    scope: {},
    onUpdate: console.log,
  });

  return (
    <React.Fragment>
      <Compiler {...params.compilerProps} presets={[presetTypescript]} />
      <Editor {...params.editorProps} language="tsx" />
      <Error {...params.errorProps} />
    </React.Fragment>
  );
};
```

This example also demonstrates **how to opt-in into TypeScript support**. Since **we use babel** as the compiler, you can simply add additional presets (`preset-react` is applied by default). If you are using additional components or dependencies, you need to pass them through `scope`.

You could also pass just a naked JSX element:

<LiveEditor initialCode={`<h3>Hey</h3>`} />

or pretty much anything that could be executed after the return statement of JS function:

<LiveEditor initialCode={`2 + 5`} />

## So What Really Is React View?

**It is a set of tools** that aspires to close the gap between users, developers and designers of component libraries. React View aims to make documentations more interactive and useful.

## Future

> **This is just a start for us**. We always gather the feedback and keep moving forward. There is already a [list of things](https://github.com/uber/react-view/issues/2) we want to improve. And there is also a long-term vision about how far the automatic code generation could get us.

Reviewer: should we also encourage folks to take those issues on? if we'd break it down to multiple issues, with the same label, we could still link to them and would make it easier for folks to grab only one

Author: Yea, this was just a quick laundry list. We can probably split it and add more details later after the publishing (assuming there is enough interest)?

import metadata from './metadata.json';
import LiveEditor from './live-editor';
import Layout from '../../../components/layout';
import Yard from '../../../components/yard/index';
import {BlogImage, Meta, Caption} from '../../../components/blog';

import {View, PropTypes} from 'react-view';
import {Button, SIZE} from 'baseui/button';

export default Layout;

<Meta data={metadata} />

> React View is an **interactive playground**, **documentation** and **code generator** for your components. You can use it to document your React component APIs, let users to live-edit the props and grab the generated ready-to-use source code.

Reviewer 2: let users to live-edit the props...
->
enabling users to live-edit the props...

> React View is an **interactive playground**, **documentation** and **code generator** for your components. You can use it to document your React component APIs, let users to live-edit the props and grab the generated ready-to-use source code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
React View is an **interactive playground**, **documentation** and **code generator** for your components. You can use it to document your React component APIs, let users live-edit props and grab the generated ready-to-use source code.
```

> The example below demonstrates all basic features of React View:

Reviewer 2: The example below demonstrates the basic features of React View

> - The component **live preview**. (`baseui/button` in this case)

Reviewer 2: no period before opening paren

> - Knobs representing `Button` props. Fully **interactive**.

Reviewer 2: Knobs representing `Button` props (fully **interactive**)

    placeholderHeight={56}
    theme={[]}
    props={{
      children: {
        value: 'Hello',
        type: PropTypes.ReactNode,
        description: 'Visible label.',
      },
      size: {
        value: 'SIZE.default',
        defaultValue: 'SIZE.default',
        options: SIZE,
        type: PropTypes.Enum,
        description: 'Defines the size of the button.',
        imports: {
          'baseui/button': {
            named: ['SIZE'],
          },
        },
      },
      onClick: {
        value: '() => alert("click")',
        type: PropTypes.Function,
        description: 'Function called when button is clicked.',
      },
      disabled: {
        value: false,
        type: PropTypes.Boolean,
        description: 'Indicates that the button is disabled',
      },
      overrides: {
        value: undefined,
        type: PropTypes.Custom,
        description: 'Lets you customize all aspects of the component.',
        custom: {
          names: [],
          sharedProps: {},
        },
      },
    }}
    scope={{
      Button,
      SIZE,
    }}
    imports={{
      'baseui/button': {
        named: ['Button'],
      },
    }}
  />
</div>

> All these parts work in harmony. An update to one of them synchronizes the state across all of them. So you can change a knob to update the source code or edit the source code to update knobs.

Reviewer 2: "All these parts work in harmony—an update to one of them synchronizes the state across all of them"

**React View is open sourced as [uber/react-view](https://github.com/uber/react-view)** and you can get it from npm right now:

```
yarn add react-view
```

> ## Wait But Why?

Reviewer 2: Wait...But Why?

> Our team is responsible for this website and the entire Base Web component library. Naturally, you might assume that most of our jobs consists of building React components. However, as the number of Base Web users grows, some days it feels more like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our team is responsible for this website and the entire Base Web component library. Naturally, you might assume that most of our job consists of building React components. However, as the number of Base Web users grows, some days it feels more like this:
```

> Our team is responsible for this website and the entire Base Web component library. Naturally, you might assume that most of our jobs consists of building React components. However, as the number of Base Web users grows, some days it feels more like this:

Reviewer 2: Drop "naturally"

<BlogImage
  src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1387913/69685208-785d8d80-1070-11ea-82bf-81bd6b7f28ee.png"
  alt="UI Platform team's workload"
  caption="UI Platform team's workload"
  style={{maxWidth: '400px'}}
/>

> **And that's a good thing**. If you don’t spend a lot of time helping other developers, it means that nobody uses your tools. We went from 0 to almost 500 applications at Uber in a single year! That translates into about 1000 of developers. There are 50 components, hundreds of props and endless possibilities. Is there a way to reduce the burden of support?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**And that's a good thing**. If you don’t spend a lot of time helping other developers, it means that nobody uses your tools. We went from 0 to 500 applications at Uber in a single year! That translates into about 1000 developers. There are over 50 components, hundreds of props and endless possibilities. Is there a way to reduce the burden of support?
```
Ran analytics this morning - over 500 projects now 😀.

> We believe that by building na amazing documentation we can significantly reduce the number of questions in our chats and make developers happier. We have invested a significant amount of time to experiment with different kinds of documentation and React View is our latest iteration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We believe that by building amazing documentation we can significantly reduce the number of questions we receive in support channels and make developers happier. We have invested a significant amount of time to experiment with different kinds of documentation and React View is our latest iteration.
```

> We believe that by building na amazing documentation we can significantly reduce the number of questions in our chats and make developers happier. We have invested a significant amount of time to experiment with different kinds of documentation and React View is our latest iteration.

Reviewer 2: building na amazing -> building amazing

> Build documentation so good they can’t ignore it.

Does it work? Check for yourself! You can browse through our components on the left-hand side and explore various features.

## How to Use React View

**There are three main ways** of using React View:

- **All-in-one playground**. Import `<View />`, give it the component configuration and drop it in your web documentation. This is ideal if you want to start as quickly as possible and don't need to customize anything.

> - **Build your own playground**. Import the `useView` hook and give it the component configuration. This hook handles the playground state and returns various props and callbacks that you can fit into your own UI components. React View also exports all default UI parts separately (`Editor`, `ActionButtons`, `Compiler`, `Knobs`, `Error`...) so you can reuse them. This is a great option if you want to customize some parts of the default UI (or all of it) and not to worry about the rest.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Build your own playground**. Import the `useView` hook and give it the component configuration. This hook handles the playground state and returns various props and callbacks that you can fit into your own UI components. React View also exports all default UI parts separately (`Editor`, `ActionButtons`, `Compiler`, `Knobs`, `Error`...) so you can reuse them. This is a great option if you want to customize some parts of the default UI (or all of it) and not worry about the rest.
```

> - **Build your own playground**. Import the `useView` hook and give it the component configuration. This hook handles the playground state and returns various props and callbacks that you can fit into your own UI components. React View also exports all default UI parts separately (`Editor`, `ActionButtons`, `Compiler`, `Knobs`, `Error`...) so you can reuse them. This is a great option if you want to customize some parts of the default UI (or all of it) and not to worry about the rest.

Reviewer 2: that you can fit into your own UI components -> that you can use in your own UI components
and not to worry about the rest -> without worrying about the rest

> - **Live code editing only**. Sometimes it is useful to only have an editable source code and live preview without the list of props. You can use `useView` for that too. Just don't give it any component configuration and don't render the `<Knobs />` component. React View uses babel, so **you can add additional presets and enable TypeScript**.

Reviewer 2: it is -> it's
an editable -> editable

### All-in-one Playground

```tsx
import {View, PropTypes} from 'react-view';
import {Button} from 'baseui/button';

export default () => (
  <View
    componentName="Button"
    props={{
      children: {
        value: 'Hello',
        type: PropTypes.ReactNode,
        description: 'Visible label.',
      },
      onClick: {
        value: '() => alert("click")',
        type: PropTypes.Function,
        description: 'Function called when button is clicked.',
      },
      disabled: {
        value: false,
        type: PropTypes.Boolean,
        description: 'Indicates that the button is disabled',
      },
    }}
    scope={{
      Button,
    }}
    imports={{
      'baseui/button': {
        named: ['Button'],
      },
    }}
  />
);
```

This is a basic example demonstrating the all-in-one `View` component. You need to define the component name, props, scope and imports. This example renders the demo at the beginning of this article (except the `size` prop).

### Build Your Own Playground

> **Bring your own UI**. The View component is a tiny wrapper around the `useView` hook. If you wish to customize and have more control, you can use the `useView` hook directly. You can still re-use our default UI components or create your own:

Reviewer 2: wish -> want

  useView,
  Compiler,
  Knobs,
  Editor,
  Error,
  ActionButtons,
  Placeholder,
  PropTypes,
} from 'react-view';

export default () => {
  const params = useView({
    componentName: 'Button',
    props: {
      children: {
        value: 'Hello',
        type: PropTypes.ReactNode,
        description: 'Visible label.',
      },
      onClick: {
        value: '() => alert("click")',
        type: PropTypes.Function,
        description: 'Function called when button is clicked.',
      },
      disabled: {
        value: false,
        type: PropTypes.Boolean,
        description: 'Indicates that the button is disabled',
      },
    },
    scope: {
      Button,
    },
    imports: {
      'baseui/button': {
        named: ['Button'],
      },
    },
  });

  return (
    <React.Fragment>
      <Compiler
        {...params.compilerProps}
        minHeight={62}
        placeholder={Placeholder}
      />
      <Error msg={params.errorProps.msg} isPopup />
      <Knobs {...params.knobProps} />
      <Editor {...params.editorProps} />
      <Error {...params.errorProps} />
      <ActionButtons {...params.actions} />
    </React.Fragment>
  );
};
```

### Live Code Editing Only

> If you don't need the code generation or props documentation, you can also use React View as an editable source code with the live preview.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you don't need the code generation or props documentation, you can also use React View for editing source code with a live preview.
```

  const text: string = "Hey";
  return <h3>{text}</h3>;
}`}
/>

### Usage

```tsx
import {useView, Compiler, Editor, Error} from 'react-view';
import presetTypescript from '@babel/preset-typescript';

export default () => {
  const params = useView({
    initialCode: `() => {
      const text: string = "Hey";
      return <h3>{text}</h3>;
    }`,
    scope: {},
    onUpdate: console.log,
  });

  return (
    <React.Fragment>
      <Compiler {...params.compilerProps} presets={[presetTypescript]} />
      <Editor {...params.editorProps} language="tsx" />
      <Error {...params.errorProps} />
    </React.Fragment>
  );
};
```

This example also demonstrates **how to opt-in into TypeScript support**. Since **we use babel** as the compiler, you can simply add additional presets (`preset-react` is applied by default). If you are using additional components or dependencies, you need to pass them through `scope`.

It can also compile a naked JSX element:

<LiveEditor initialCode={`<h3>Hey</h3>`} />

Or pretty much anything that can be executed after the return statement of JavaScript function:

<LiveEditor initialCode={`2 + 5`} />

## So What Really Is React View?

> **It is a set of tools** that aspires to close the gap between users, developers and designers of component libraries. React View aims to make documentation more interactive and useful. It utilizes already popular tools as babel and prettier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**It is a set of tools** that aspires to close the gap between users, developers and designers of component libraries. React View aims to make documentation more interactive and useful. It utilizes already popular tools such as babel and prettier.
```

> **It is a set of tools** that aspires to close the gap between users, developers and designers of component libraries. React View aims to make documentation more interactive and useful. It utilizes already popular tools as babel and prettier.

Reviewer 2: this paragraph would make a good intro

> **This is just a start for us**. We always gather the feedback and keep moving forward. There is already a [list of things](https://github.com/uber/react-view/issues/2) we want to improve. And there is also a long-term vision about how far the automatic code generation could get us.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**This is just a start for us**. We are always gathering feedback and moving forward. There is already a [list of things](https://github.com/uber/react-view/issues/2) we want to improve. And there is also a long-term vision about how far the automatic code generation could get us.
```

> **This is just a start for us**. We always gather the feedback and keep moving forward. There is already a [list of things](https://github.com/uber/react-view/issues/2) we want to improve. And there is also a long-term vision about how far the automatic code generation could get us.

Reviewer 2: We always gather the feedback -> We're always gathering feedback

> React View is a set of tools that aspires to close the gap between users, developers and designers of component libraries.

For now, we have designed React View to be as flexible as possible. Our hope is that it will resonate with the community and we will see new applications, custom built UI components and 3rd party design system integrations.

> **We could all save a lot of time by not writing a code that can be generated**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We could all save a lot of time by not writing code that can be generated**.
```
